We're going to look at the results of the
recursive Newton-Euler algorithm again. But
this time, we're going to do the operations
symbolically using MATLAB’s computer algebra
capability.
The first thing we are going to do is to bring
in a model of the two link robot, that’s
the mdl_twolink with a suffix sym to indicate
that it is a symbolic model. And once again,
we have a serial link object created in our
workspace called twolink.
Because I am going to work with symbols rather
than numbers, I need to actually define my
variables in advance. So, I'm going to define
a symbolic variable called Q1 and Q2. And
Q1D and Q2D to represent the velocity of joints
1 and joint 2 and Q1DD to represent the acceleration
of joint 1 and the acceleration of joint 2.
Now that I have that, I can use the rne method
just as I did last time and I'm going to pass
in the joint angles which are the symbolic
variables Q1 and Q2. I am going to pass in
the, joint velocities which are the symbolic
variables Q1D and Q2D and I'm going to pass
in the symbolic variables for the joint acceleration
which is Q1DD and Q2DD.
And, I'm going to save this into a variable
called tau. Do that while I remember. Here
we go. Here is the result.
So, if I look at the torque that is acting
on the first joint, here we have a symbolic
expression for that torque and it is a very
long and complex expression. We can see that
there are a number of kinematic parameters
in here like A1 and A2. We can see there are
joint accelerations, joint velocities. We
can see G, the gravitational acceleration
there are trigonometric terms. There are joint
masses. There is all sorts of stuff. It is
a very long and very complicated expression
for the torque acting on Joint 1 of our simple
two link robot.
The torque acting on Joint 2, that's the elbow
joint robot, is a more concise expression.
There are less complex forces and torques
acting on the second joint of robot. We can
see this very complex expression. Imagine
what it will be like for a six-link robot.
Now, it is possible to factorize and simplify
those very complex expressions that we just
looked at. In particular, if we express it
in matrix form like this. Tau is a vector
of the applied joint torques. Q, of course,
is our joint coordinates, generally the joint
angles of the serial link manipulator. Q-dot,
the joint velocities, the rates of change
of the joint coordinates and Q-dot-dot is
the joint acceleration. G is a term which
represents the torque that's due to the gravity
acting on the robot manipulator and gravity
is a function only of the joint coordinates
Q. M is the inertia matrix and it is a function
only of the joint coordinates multiply by
the joint accelerations.
This gives us the torque that's required to
accelerate our serial link manipulator. C
is referred to as the Coriolis and centripetal
term and this represents the gyroscopic and
other forces that act on the robot joints
due to the rotation of other robot joints.